Our goal as teachers
is to help the person
to become a disciple of Christ.
I want my student
to love Jehovah
the same way that I do.
What I most enjoy
is conducting Bible studies.
Being able to see
a student grow spiritually
is a joy that can’t be put into words.
The Watchtower  of January 2020
mentions several things
that we need to keep in mind
as we conduct a study.
Studying the article,
I saw how many changes I needed to make
when I conduct a Bible study.
It highlighted that besides helping
the student to gain knowledge,
it’s even more important
that we help them progress
to the point of dedicating
their lives to Jehovah
and, of course, getting baptized.
Even though I read
about how we should stop studying
with nonprogressive Bible studies,
I didn’t feel comfortable doing it
because I was afraid
I might make the wrong decision.
Although I was pretty sure
that my Bible student wasn’t yet married
(that is legally married,
she had never told me this directly),
I just didn’t feel comfortable
talking with her about it.
I had a Bible student who always prepared for
and commented well at the study.
I kept inviting her to the meetings,
but she never went to a single one,
and she never attended the Memorial.
I saw that she still had ties
with some aspects of her religion.
The article brought out
that in the first few weeks,
as soon as the study becomes regular,
it’s important to start praying
with the student.
It used to take me a long time
to start doing that.
The article helped me
because it encouraged me
to bring others with me on the study
and also not to be afraid
to bring along those
who are more experienced.
In the article,
it brought out how important it is
not just for us to pray with our students
but also to help them
to begin saying their own prayers as well.
After that, when the study became regular,
I’d pray before and after each session.
And I encouraged each of them
to also begin praying to Jehovah personally.
So praying became a daily habit for them.
A circuit overseer’s wife
went with me on my study,
and she asked my student
if she was married.
“Yes, I’m married.”
“But are you legally married?”
And then she responded, “No.”
So that really opened up an opportunity
for me to help the student out
with this situation.
The article gave some suggestions
about how we need to pay attention
to the student’s spiritual progress.
It really should be consistent.
We studied for a long time,
a little over a year.
And that’s when I realized
that it was time for me
to stop and decide
if I should discontinue the study.
Then I put into practice the suggestion
from The Watchtower  of January 2020.
I told her: “You really are someone
who appreciates God’s Word,
“and you’re always regular
with your studies.
“But like we just read about,
there’s some fruitage in your life
that’s missing.”
But she responded,
“But I think it’s all in Jehovah’s time.”
So I said,
“Jehovah has already invited you personally,
so it’s really up to you now.”
But she kept saying, “Well, to me,
it’ll happen in Jehovah’s time.”
Unfortunately,
it seemed better to discontinue the study
because she showed that she didn’t feel
the need to make progress.
This article was a present from Jehovah.
It was like everything that was important
came all together in just one article.
We’re living in urgent times,
so we need to be as efficient as possible.
The spiritual progress a person makes,
which may have taken five years,
can take place now.